MultiView with Array of Pointers (#791)
LLNL/RAJA: docs/sphinx/user_guide/feature/view.rst

access array entries with stride N :subscript:`n` * N :subscript:`(n-1)` * ... * N :subscript:`(j+1)`.

MultiView
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A ``RAJA::MultiView`` object wraps an array-of-pointers,
or a pointer-to-pointers, rather than a ``RAJA::View`` which wraps a single
pointer or array. This allows a single ``RAJA::Layout`` to be applied to a
large set of arrays, and encapsulates a set of arrays more easily.

The instantiation of a MultiView works exactly like a standard View,
except that it wraps an array-of-pointers::

  int * myarr[2];

>   RAJA::MultiView< int, RAJA::Layout<2> > MView(myarr, N0, ... Nn);

Reviewer: This would be more clear if it included something like the example, like
 constexpr int N = 12;
  int a[N] = {0};
  int b[N] = {0};
  int * ab[2] = {a, b};

   RAJA::MultiView<int, RAJA::Layout<2, RAJA::Index_type>> abView(ab, N, N);

The MultiView can access individual arrays via the zero-th index::

>   MView( 0, x, y ); // accesses the (x,y)th element of the first array

Reviewer: It would be helpful if the comment included the expected value of MView(0, x, y) for x=1 and y=4.  Or add a couple of extra concrete access examples here.

Author: Thanks, Steve! You're right, the example is a bit too lean. I've updated the documentation to address both of your comments.

access array entries with stride N :subscript:`n` * N :subscript:`(n-1)` * ... * N :subscript:`(j+1)`.

MultiView
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A ``RAJA::MultiView`` object wraps an array-of-pointers,

> or a pointer-to-pointers, rather than a ``RAJA::View`` which wraps a single

Reviewer 2: This is awkward. Suggested change: "rather than" -> "whereas" (or "while")

Reviewer 3: For little things like this, we have recently started requesting folks on the OpenMP repo use the "suggested change" feature, might save some effort over here too, like this:

```suggestion
or a pointer-to-pointers, whereas a ``RAJA::View`` which wraps a single

```

Reviewer 2: Thanks @trws I was not aware of that feature. I will use it in the future.

Reviewer 3: It's only newly available everywhere. Bronis and I just gave a little tutorial on it for the OpenMP committee so we could start using it for the small stuff where it's easier to just make the change than explain it.  Probably should have thought of it during the meeting this morning but didn't occur to me.  It's especially nice since they added the "Add suggestion to batch" button, so you can aggregate all the little suggestions into a batched commit.

Reviewer 2: 👍

pointer or array. This allows a single ``RAJA::Layout`` to be applied to a

> large set of arrays, and encapsulates a set of arrays more easily.

Reviewer 2: "large set" -> "multiple" and "encapsulates a set of arrays" -> "allowing multiple arrays to share indexing arithmetic when their access patterns are the same"

Reviewer 2: This still seems unclear to me. I think simple and direct is better: "applied to multiple arrays." instead.

The instantiation of a MultiView works exactly like a standard View,

> except that it wraps an array-of-pointers::

Reviewer 2: "wraps" -> "takes"

>   int a1[4] = {5,6,7,8}; int a2[4] = {9,10,11,12}; // individual arrays of the same size

Reviewer 2: Easier to read if declaration of a1 and a2 are each on their own line.

>   int * myarr[2]; // array of arrays which will be passed into MultiView

Reviewer 2: Change to "array of pointers"

>   myarr[0] = a1; myarr[1] = a2;

Reviewer 2: Again, separate lines.

>   RAJA::MultiView< int, RAJA::Layout<2> > MView(myarr, 2, 2);

Reviewer 2: An explanation of that the "2" args represent would be helpful here.

The MultiView can access individual arrays via the zero-th index::

>   MView( 0, 2, 2 ); // accesses 8, the (2,2)th element of the first array

Reviewer 2: This comment would be clearer if they were changed to "access array entry at index (2,2), which has value 8. Same with the next one below.

  MView( 1, 2, 2 ); // accesses 12, the (2,2)th element of the second array

The index into the array-of-pointers can be moved (swizzled) to different

> indices of the ``()`` operator. This is achieved by instantiating the MultiView

Reviewer 2: I would change how this is worded. It's also harder to understand if part of the explanation is in the test and part is in the code comment.  In general, use comments in the code examples sparingly to explain things. Specifically, change "This is achieved but instantiation...." to "By passing a third template  parameter to the MultiView constructor, the array entry index and the integer indicating which array to access can be reversed::"

with an additional third template parameter::

  RAJA::MultiView< int, RAJA::Layout<2>, 2 > MView2(myarr, 2, 2); // MultiView with swizzled array-of-pointers index to 2nd position

>   MView2( 2, 1, 0 ); // accesses 7, the (2,1)th element of the first array

Reviewer 2: Suggest similar comment change here as above.

  MView2( 2, 1, 1 ); // accesses 11, the (2,1)th element of the second array

> Alternatively, the array-of-pointers index can be swizzled to the 1st position, and with a linear (one-dimenstional) layout::

Reviewer 2: This needs a clearer explanation. I think I understand it, but I'm not sure. I think the dimensionality of the Layout should be 1. (Stating things as simple and explicit as possible is generally good for documentation).

  RAJA::MultiView< int, RAJA::Layout<2>, 1 > MView1(myarr, 4); // MultiView with swizzled array-of-pointers index to 1st position, and 1-D layout

>   MView1( 3, 0 ); // accesses 7, the 3rd element of the first array

Reviewer 2: Change comments as suggested above.

>   MView1( 4, 1 ); // accesses 12, the 4th element of the second array

Reviewer 2: Similar comment change as above.

> .. note:: MultiView cannot currently work with Layouts which use strongly

Reviewer 2: "cannot" -> "does not"

access array entries with stride N :subscript:`n` * N :subscript:`(n-1)` * ... * N :subscript:`(j+1)`.

MultiView
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A ``RAJA::MultiView`` object wraps an array-of-pointers,
or a pointer-to-pointers, whereas a ``RAJA::View`` wraps a single
pointer or array. This allows a single ``RAJA::Layout`` to be applied to

> multiple arrays internal to the MultiView, allowing multiple arrays to share indexing

Reviewer 2: This is good. Sorry about my last couple of comments. I needed to refresh my browser.

arithmetic when their access patterns are the same.

The instantiation of a MultiView works exactly like a standard View,
except that it takes an array-of-pointers. In the following example, a MultiView
applies a 1-D layout of length 4 to 2 internal arrays in ``myarr``::

>   int a1[4] = {5,6,7,8}; // Arrays of the same size, which will become internal to the MultiView.

Reviewer 2: The comment would be better placed on its own line above the declaration of a1.

  int a2[4] = {9,10,11,12};

>   int * myarr[2]; // Array-of-pointers which will be passed into MultiView.

Reviewer 2: Blank line above line 100 would improve readability.

  myarr[0] = a1;
  myarr[1] = a2;
  // This MultiView applies a 1-D layout of length 4 to each internal array in myarr.

>   RAJA::MultiView< int, RAJA::Layout<1> > MView(myarr, 4);

Reviewer 2: Blank line above line 104 would improve readability.

The default MultiView accesses internal arrays via the 0th index of the MultiView::

>   MView( 0, 4 ); // accesses the 4th index of the 0th internal array a1, returns value of 8

Reviewer 2: Does the "internal" qualifier add anything?

Author: I wanted to distinguish between the array-of-pointers, and the arrays within the array-of-pointers (internal arrays).

  MView( 1, 2 ); // accesses 2nd index of the 1st internal array a2, returns value of 10

The index into the array-of-pointers can be moved to different
indices of the MultiView ``()`` access operator, rather than the default 0th index. By 
passing a third template parameter to the MultiView constructor, the internal array index
and the integer indicating which array to access can be reversed::

  RAJA::MultiView< int, RAJA::Layout<1>, 1 > MView1(myarr, 4); // MultiView with array-of-pointers index in 1st position

>   MView1( 4, 0 ); // accesses the 4th index of the 0th internal array a1, returns value of 8

Reviewer 2: Please add a blank line above line 117.

  MView1( 2, 1 ); // accesses 2nd index of the 1st internal array a2, returns value of 10

As the number of Layout dimensions increases, the index into the array-of-pointers can be
moved to more distinct locations in the MultiView ``()`` access operator. Here is an example
which compares the accesses of a 2-D layout on a normal ``RAJA::View`` with a ``RAJA::MultiView``
with the array-of-pointers index set to the 2nd position::
 
  RAJA::View< int, RAJA::Layout<2> > normalView(a1, 2, 2);
  normalView( 2, 1 ); // accesses 3rd index of the a1 array, value = 7

>   RAJA::MultiView< int, RAJA::Layout<2>, 2 > MView2(myarr, 2, 2); // MultiView with array-of-pointers index in 2nd position

Reviewer 2: Please add a blank line above line 127 for readability and to separate the concepts.
